---
layout: post
title:  "Blog 7: Vagrant "
date:   2020-03-27 18:00:18 -0000
categories: jekyll update
---

<h2>Vagrant</h2>

Vagrant is an open source software to manage portable virtual environments for software development, such as VirtualBox, Hyper-V, VMware, AWS, Docker containers. The main goal of the tool is to increase development productivity by simplify software configuration management. Written in Ruby language.

Building blocks of Vagrant are “Provisioners” and “Providers”. Provisioners allows to user to customize configuration of specific virtual environment. Widely used Provisioners are Puppet and Chef. Providers are the services used to create virtual environments: VirtualBox, Hyper-V, Docker. VMware and AWS support Vagrant via plugins.

Vagrant acts as a wrapper on virtualization software, helps interaction between user and providers, and automates process (Chef or Puppet). Thus user does not need to interact directly with virtualization software. Machine and software requirements are written in a “vagrantfile” and used to crate development ready virtual box. File with Vagrant environment box has a .box format and extension, and can be copied and used to replicate the same environment.

<h1>Installing Vagrant on Ubuntu</h1>

Install VirtualBox:

		$ sudo apt install virtualbox

Update package list, and download and install latest version of Vagrant from official site:

		$ sudo apt update
		$ curl -0 https://releses.hasicorp.com/vagrant/2.2.7/vagrant_2.2.7_x86_64.deb
		$ sudo apt install ./vagrant_2.2.7_x86_64.deb

Verify installations:

		$ vagrant --version

Start a project with creation root directory for vagrantfile:

		$ mkdir ~/my_vagrant_project
$ cd ~/my_vagrant_project

Initialize vagrantfile and OS for box of desire:

		$ vagrant init centos/8 --box-version 1905.1

To create and configure  virtual machine run:

		$ vagrant up

To ssh into virtual machine:

		$ vagrant ssh

To stop virtual machine:

		$ vagrant halt

To stop and then destroy all resources created during virtual machine life cycle:

		$ vagrant destroy






[jekyll-docs]: https://jekyllrb.com/docs/home
[jekyll-gh]:   https://github.com/jekyll/jekyll
[jekyll-talk]: https://talk.jekyllrb.com/
