---
layout: post
title:  "Blog 9: AWS EKS "
date:   2020-04-10 18:00:18 -0000
categories: jekyll update
---

<h2>AWS EKS: Elastic Kubernetes Service</h2>

EKS is a service offered by Amazon to run Kubernetes on AWS without need for a user to run Kubernetes control plane. EKS is fully managed by Amazon. It has similar functionality: automatic deployment, scaling and management of containerized applications. EKS features extremely high availability due to implementation of Kubernetes instances across multiple Availability Zones. AWS EKS easily can be integrated with other AWServices to maintain scalable and secured applications.

<h3>AWS EKS Control Plane Architecture</h3>

For every cluster, AWS EKS control plane runs with single tenant Kubernetes control plane, and it can not be shared as resource with other AWS accounts and EKS clusters. Architectural components are (minimum): two API server nodes and three "etcd" nodes (distributed key-value store) running in three Availability Zones presented in Region. To maintain high security for running EKS clusters, AWS EKS restricts viewing and receiving ant communication (by implementation of Amazon VPC policies) from other clusters or AWS accounts (with exception to entities authorized by Kubernetes RBAC policy).

<h3>Start AWS EKS:</h3>

    Step 1: Create AWS EKS cluster (using eksctl, AWS console, or AWS CLI, or any AWS SDKs)
    Step 2: Launch worker node(s), register with AWS EKS cluster
    Step 3: Configure worker nodes (use AWS CludFormation template for automation process)
    Step 4: Configure cluster
    Step 5: Deploy and manage apps on EKS cluster

<h3>Start EKS with eksctl</h3>

An eksctl is a command line tool for creating and managing Kubernetes on Amazon EKS. As a prerquisite AWS CLI must be installed, or being updated up to an current version, prior to using of eksctl. System's Python must be 2.7.9 or later.

AWS CLI recently was released with version 2. AWS CLI version 1 is no longer supported. It is recomended by AWS to unistall AWS CLI v.1 and use only AWS CLI v.2.

To install or upgrade eks ctl on Linux:

    curl --silent --location "https://github.com/weaveworks/eksctl/latest/download/eksctl_$(uname -s)_amd64.tar.gz" | tar xz -C /template

Then move binaries to:

    sudo mv /tmp/eksctl/ /usr/local/binaries

Check installation results (version should be no lower than 0.17.0):

    eksctl version








[jekyll-docs]: https://jekyllrb.com/docs/home
[jekyll-gh]:   https://github.com/jekyll/jekyll
[jekyll-talk]: https://talk.jekyllrb.com/
