---
layout: post
title:  "Blog 0: Kubernetes"
date:   2020-01-31 18:00:18 -0000
categories: jekyll update
---

<h3>What is Kubernetes?</h3>

Kubernetes is an open source platform that automates Linux container operations. It eliminates many of the manual processes involved in deploying and scaling containerized applications. In other words, users cluster together groups of hosts running Linux containers, and Kubernetes helps you easily and efficiently manage those clusters. Kubernetes clusters can span hosts across public, private, or hybrid clouds. For this reason, Kubernetes is an ideal platform for hosting cloud-native applications that require rapid scaling.

<h3>Why to use Kubernetes?</h3>

Some applications operates on multiple containers that deployed across multiple server hosts and required multilayered security for containers. Kubernetes provides tools for orchestration and management of capabilities required to deploy containers to achieve desired functionality. Kubernetes allows to build applications that involve multiple containers, schedule activities for containers across a cluster, scale containers, and monitor health of containers. As well Kubernetes integrates with networking, storage, security, and many other services to provide a comprehensive container infrastructure.

<h3>Kubernetes principles:</h3>

Portable - Kubernetes runs across various environments with consistent behavior.

General purpose - Kubernetes main focus is deployment of microservices and cloud based applications, however any type of workload can be deployed, including but not limited to stateless and statefull apps, legacy single instance monolithic apps, etc.

Flexible - Kubernetes allows to substitute build in functionality parts with pluggable components, layers, and with custom solutions.

Extensible - allows addition of new functionalities and capabilities when necessary.

Automatable - with proper configuration, apps deployed via Kubernetes will heal itself and scale without users intervention.

<h3>Kubernetes architecture</h3>







[jekyll-docs]: https://jekyllrb.com/docs/home
[jekyll-gh]:   https://github.com/jekyll/jekyll
[jekyll-talk]: https://talk.jekyllrb.com/
