---
layout: post
title:  "Blog 6: AWS S3 "
date:   2020-03-13 18:00:18 -0000
categories: jekyll update
---

<h1>AWS S3</h1>

Amazon Simple Storage Service is a service to store objects. Service offers scalability, security, high performance, and availability. Stored objects may be a websites, mobile applications, archives, big data analytics, etc. Amazon S3 service designed for 99.9999999999% of durability. Amazon S3 service offers variety of storage classes to meet all needs of different use cases.

<h2>AWS S3 Storage Classes

<h3>General Purpose: AWS S3 Standard</h3>
S3 Standard offers high availability, durability, and performance storage for frequently accessed data. This type of storage features low latency and high throughput. Use cases may include dynamic websites, cloud applications, mobile and gaming applications, big data analytics, and content distribution.
Key features:
-	Low latency
-	High throughput
-	High durability
-	High availability
-	Supports SSL and encryption

<h3>Unknown or changing access: AWS S3 Intelligent-Tiering</h3>
Provides optimization of cost by automatically moving data (with no impact on performance or operational overhead) to most cost-effective tier. Amazon S3 service monitors data objects, and if noticed no events of access for data objects, it moves them to infrequent access tier. Later if those objects being accessed, AWS S3 service moves them back to S3 Intelligent-Tier (frequent access). This class is ideal for long-lasting data with unknown or unpredictable access pattern.

<h3>Archive: AWS S3 Glacier and AWS Glacier Deep Archive</h3>
S3 Glacier is a low cost storage class for data archiving. Service provides high security and durability. To keep service costs low, it provides three retrieval ways that have range of retrieval time from few minutes to hours.

<h2>AWS CLI: Amazon S3</h2>

<h3>High-Level (s3) commands with AWS CLI</h3>

Allows to manage Amazon S3 buckets and objects by using high-level AWS S3 commands to support common bucket operations: creating, listing, and deleting buckets.

<h4>Create a Bucket</h4>
 To create a S3 bucket use following command:


        $ aws s3 mb s3://globally_unique_name


Name must be globally unique and DNS compliant. Name can contain lowercase letters, numbers, hyphens, and periods. Name can start and end only with letter of number. Also, name cannot contain a period next to another period, or hyphen.

<h4>List Buckets</h4>

To list all buckets:


        $ aws s3 ls


To list all objects and folders in the bucket:


		    $ aws s3 ls s3://bucket_name


To list all objects and folders following specific path:


		    $ aws s3 ls s3://bucket_name/path/


<h4>Delete Bucket</h4>

To remove empty bucket:


		    $ aws s3 rb s3://bucket_name


To remove non-empty bucket (except bucket that contains previously deleted, but retained object:


		    $ aws s3 rb s3://bucket_name  force





[jekyll-docs]: https://jekyllrb.com/docs/home
[jekyll-gh]:   https://github.com/jekyll/jekyll
[jekyll-talk]: https://talk.jekyllrb.com/
